{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red7\green63\blue141;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c32941\c62353;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17820\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 IMPORTANT: READ THROUGH THE README FILE WHICH GIVES DESCRIPTIONS OF ALL COMPONENTS NEEDED TO RUN THE  BPOP MODEL. 
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
\
This folder contains codes used to run the Bayesian Hierarchical Population (B-POP) model to obtain BPOP population estimates using ACS, PEP, and Census data. \
\
To run the BPOP Model. \
1. Open the PopulationRWModel.Rproj R package. This will call all the R functions needed to run the model which are housed in the R folder. \
2. Open the BPop_Main07.R file. This is the main script that runs everything in sequence with comments and notes written throughout. \
3. The data folder currently has data used to obtain BPop estimates for 159 counties in GA. To run BPop for other applications/states, view the ga_county.RDS file in the data folder that contains the format for data inputs used in BPOP. \
4. The R folder contains all the R functions needed to run the BPOP model. \
5. There is a test output folder that encompasses all output doing a test run for GA. The \'ab\'a0test\'a0\'bb output folder contains all the output given from the BPOP model including model fits, trace plots PDFs, model data, model text file and final county plots.  (THE LARGER PDFs ARE NOT INCLUDED IN GITHUB DUE TO SIZE).\
\
IMPORTANT TO NOTE: For other applications there may need to be tweaking of codes to handle more/other race groups.  Particularly with the undercount error in the get_model_data_revised.R function. \
The current set-up \ul can only handle county-race-year specific estimates\ulnone  and does not go down to smaller geographies or age-groups.  To get smaller population counts than county-race-year, we have applied a proportion multiplier that uses the ACS reported proportion per census tract and applied to the county-race-year totals. \
\
For full details of our methodology, see\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa440\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Emily N. Peterson.\cf0  \cf2 Rachel C. Nethery.\cf0  \cf2 Tullia Padellini.\cf0  \cf2 Jarvis T. Chen.\cf0  \cf2 Brent A. Coull.\cf0  \cf2 Fr\'e9d\'e9ric B. Piel.\cf0  \cf2 Jon Wakefield.\cf0  \cf2 Marta Blangiardo.\cf0  \cf2 Lance A. Waller.\cf0  "A Bayesian hierarchical small area population model accounting for data source specific methodologies from American Community Survey, Population Estimates Program, and Decennial census data." Ann. Appl. Stat. 18 (2) 1565 - 1595, June 2024. https://doi-org.proxy.library.emory.edu/10.1214/23-AOAS1849
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
}